I'm washing my I'm washing my Dell right now before I talk about I'm gonna talk about my XPS a little bit
So I figured out washing your XPS. Yeah, cuz you know, it's touch. Yeah
Well, you know what I mean? Like I've got I've got one of these. Yeah, you got to get the v8 off the screen
First of all, so come out tonight. I'm watching my Dell. Yeah. Yeah, sorry. Sorry. I'll be busy watching my Dell tonight
So but it's because it's got the touchscreen. I wanted to get my fingerprints off of it, right?
Yeah, this that's the thing about touch screens that I don't quite get because I'd be reticent about actually touching the screen for putting
Greasy fingerprints all over it. I I've sort of given it
You know and the thing is is what I've been finding because this this XPS 13 is it's so light it is it is it is
It is two pounds. I mean they talked about the new MacBook Air being crazy light the new MacBook with USB C
Well, this has got a little more weight on it for a way more computer
I mean, it's just ridiculous how light this thing is I literally thought Dell shipped this to me without a battery in it when I got
It. Oh, seriously, it's that like usually batteries were all your weight is so I
I usually end up sitting when I'm sitting on the couch. It's on my belly
And I have my thumbs on the screen and I actually have been finding that I really like navigating
I turns out turns out I don't mind using touchscreen to navigate the web
I just also really like having a full desktop with like an i7 processor
and like 512 gigabytes of storage so
It's not that it's not that I don't but I also like having I also like browsing the web sort of with a tablet
So from time to time, I'm just sort of on my and I and you know what like cuz I'm not a huge trackpad fan
I'll talk more about the trackpad in the show, but I'm not a huge trackpad fan
So nipples like me, maybe maybe I maybe I should try nipples more, you know
I every now and I experiment with things like that and I find I like it a lot, but I
Hey
And you never go you're never going you're never like you never bring your hand down and touch that pad you never go
My hands on the nipples all the time. Okay, so I
Yeah, I know I know you guys are very hardcore about that
So what I've been finding is when I want to avoid the trackpad
I just been using the touchscreen and then track pads actually gotten pretty good. I'll talk about it more but I
I didn't expect to actually find myself. I
Thought I don't know. I I've been using I don't use touch a lot here in the studio
I use it sometimes actually I use it just about every day and I thought that I don't know the more I have touched the
more I end up finding myself
Actually when I was doing a lot of couch surfing with a touchscreen Chromebook
I really got used to it and it was actually more comfortable than reaching down for the trackpad
Yeah to reach up from the keyboard and it made my hand my wrist feel a little bit better. Yeah interesting
So I found that I found I found that to be interesting in the fact that
It's one more thing that keeps me in Chrome because the touch support is a little bit better
Welcome to Linux unplugged your weekly Linux talk show that's prepared for the first laptop of my son Dylan. That's right
Happy birthday Dylan. My name is Chris. My name is Matt. It's all staged Matt
I've got a I'll tell you more about it here just a second
We've got a laptop ready for him to go with the Minecraft launcher in his dock all cued up
He's gonna open up the laptop lid Minecraft be right there on the screen ready to go. It'll be his first experience to Linux
It's gonna be glorious. Yeah, it'll be glorious. It'll be glorious and
It's kind of cool
You know
I was I was trying to figure out if maybe I could
Grab like a system 76 laptop and right it up for him or if I had like a machine here at the studio I could
convert
But with Linux fest coming up like all of our that's where all of our finances are sort of invest right now
It's getting ready for Linux fest. I don't way I could afford a new laptop and
Noah from the Linux action show said well, why don't you hang on to the wall?
I actually asked him first he said yes, it's fine
Why don't you hang on to that Sputnik XPS laptop that he'd send up for last year's Linux fest
I'd have been hanging on to that I replaced with my XPS 13
Recently and was you know when he came back up was gonna have him take that laptop back
He said no, hold on to it. So I reloaded that Sputnik laptop with elementary OS and
And I got minecraft ready to go load it up for him and we'll be giving that to him tonight
It'll be his first Linux computer, which is crazy
What is crazy about that is not only is this Dylan's first computer and it runs Linux, but then this weekend
We're switching my wife Angela to Linux as well. So it's a big Linux week in the Fisher house
Oh now one on it
I've been working on Angela for nine years to get her to switch and she's she was like
I think she was more committed to iPhoto than she was to me
Oh, let's see for my wife. It's Photoshop. She's like, but can I but can I do this one thing?
Can I do that one thing doesn't have that one support and it's like it's all about the photos
Yeah, yeah for angers all about the photo management totally understandable to write. We have three kids, you know
We've we have our wedding in there
We have our construction of our house in there
The construction of the studio is in there like she has a lot of really important events that we have in her iPhoto library
It's about 500 gigs worth
And so it there's not a lot of programs that handle that super well
And she's got all the metadata and all the tags and all this stuff, but Apple has been
Discontinued has discontinued iPhoto. So we're using it as an opportunity to move her to Linux
So it's a really exciting week for me. We have a lot going on plus we have
Folks from the JB team fly beginning to fly in this week. So that's really cool
So there's a ton of stuff going on Matt, but nonetheless
We are gathered here today with a pretty big Linux unplugged. So why don't we bring in our mumble room time-appropriate greetings mumble room
Yo, hey, there's you know
I've been I've been picking up some of the gaps of stuff that has developed between when Linux action show aired and when unplugged airs
Which is unbelievable. There's like actual stories of developing what is feels like eight hours amount of time
I know it's more than that. But to me it feels like it's eight hours
And this was a big one
Linux 4.0 has been sort of
Released I guess. Yeah, Linus Torvalds whole approach on this whole thing. It's just so funny
This would never fly with a commercial operating system
It would have to be a big release have to be so much buzz and bang and and 4.0 comes out
It's like that's kind of a release. So Linus starts
So I decided to release 4.0 as per the normal schedule
He has there really weren't any known issues and while I'll be traveling during the end of the upcoming week due to a college visit
I'm hoping that won't affect the merge window very much
Well, we'll see Linux 4.0 was pretty a small pretty much a small release in both Linux next and in the final size
Although small is all relative. I suppose I then he goes on to give some stats
He said that said there's a few interesting things about it
He goes on to talk about a couple of them feature wise though. He says and I love this one
4.0 doesn't have all that much special
Much of the mate much has been made of the new kernel patching infrastructure, but realistically
That not only wasn't the reason for the version number change
We've had much bigger changes in other versions. This is very much a solid code progress release. So go out and enjoy it
Linux 4.0 everybody
Linus we're all sheep Torvalds it's signed
All that hype minus the turtleneck, you know, it's a definitely pretty well done
Yeah, very low-key very low-key very and now of course now I'm like, oh I'm gonna get it
When do I get when am I gonna get it?
Uh, yeah, I like I like that. He's like that that big patching thing
Yeah, that's that's not even a big deal and everybody was kind of like, oh, you know
They ought to take that patching feature is and spin it as the new version
Like I've actually heard people say that they spin that for 4.0
We should spin the kernel live patching thing is it and there have been some articles that actually ran over the weekend that did do
Just that new Linux. In fact, in fact, I saw an article with the headline new Linux kernel 4.0 is the beginning of Skynet
I'm gonna go see if I can find it right now kernel 4.0 Skynet. That was that should probably bring it up, right?
Yeah, here we go. PC world. Yeah, here we go. Yeah, Skynet closer to existence
Thanks to Linux kernel 4.0 and it has a big ominous tux with glowing blue eyes, right?
So some of the press is having a pretty good time with the 4.0 release
However, Linus himself not so excited about it just seems to be pretty meh
Well, I like you know what I like about him is he has this priority straight
It's like, you know really in the grand scheme of things. This is really a big thing for him
It's like it's just another day at the office. He enjoys what he does. He provides value to people now
He's moving on with his life. He's good. Yeah, I love it. Yeah, it's pretty cool. Shout out to our friends at
hmm, let's see and
tear girl and to grow
Sina are
Antiguerra and tear girls. Yeah and tear go so go with that
They just released a new ISO and I've heard from a few folks in the community who've tried it out as you might expect
It's based on arch. So it's got all the latest stuff including gnome 3.16
If you want it really pretty straightforward way to get a semi close day vanilla arch install loaded
Yeah, it's pretty good distro to go with I I've installed it on my recent rig that I had to reload and
And it's been working great. And I also tried it on that XPS for a little bit. Yeah, go ahead
I think that you know for anyone it's looking to try arch out first
I think it's it's a great way to get up and run up and running quickly
If you're if you're basically all about the pac-man and not so much about the configuration
It's a it's really a smart way to go about that pac-man. Yeah, all about pac-man
Hey, and then something else that didn't necessarily develop between now and last but we have wimpy here to talk about it with us
Is this really great deal between at least I assume it's great
I will ask wimpy between the Ubuntu Mate project and I think it's is it intro where wimpy the hardware manufacturer, right?
That's correct. Yeah, so this looks like this if I'm understanding looks like a deal where essentially when I go to order an intro
Where machine I it's not like at first I thought it was like one machine this has gonna have Ubuntu Mate on it
But it's all of their machines will have it as an option. Is that correct?
Yeah, all the laptops and desktop machines will have been tomato 1504 as an option
When final release drops when so when when so this this will go live when 1504 is live
That's right. Yeah, are you super excited or what? I mean this seems like a big deal to me
Yeah, I am when when I got to sort of the end of 1410
I thought it'd be really cool if you could find somebody to put you know
Ubuntu Mate on computers because my family have got a lot of old computers and they need replacing and it's like, you know
What would you get and now, you know intro where are based in the UK and you might have
Been able to tell from my accent. I'm in the UK. That's that's handy. Yeah, I know
So so yeah, this is a local computer manufacturer supporting Linux putting an operating system that I've had a hand in
Developing. So yeah when my when my family are up for new computers, I know where I'll be going
Yeah, so wait this whole deal is just so that your mom can get a new computer. Is that right?
My wife and my dad and my father-in-law
All about the family, yeah
That was the origins of the project. So, you know, it's just stands to reason that is really neat with the family
That is really neat. I didn't know I think this is probably the first
Ubuntu flavor where there's been hardware available on the very first release that it's become an official flavor
Surely interesting. Very cool. Yeah, I see they have a steam machine. So I
Didn't realize that Matei wasn't yet actually an official flavor yet. They knew the current releases weren't official. I
Will be by next Thursday. Okay. Yeah, so 1504 was the first official official version
Yeah, now this now this is not available in the US or will be available in the US
They're not shipping to the US at the moment
So at the moment, this is only available in the UK and I've spoken to the guys from intro where and they're currently putting things
In place to offer their products throughout Europe with the appropriate
European keyboard options so I don't think you're gonna have intro where shipping in the US
Anytime soon, but if you're in Europe
You certainly will do and keep an eye on intro wares Twitter and Google plus feeds to find out more about that
There'll be there'll be updates soon, but you know, you're spoilt for choice in the US, you know, you've got plenty of options
Yeah, there were systems
More than fair. I think penguin. Yep. Yeah more than fair and and this is great
I mean this is this is great to have another vendor to recommend to the audience and
I
I just
To give somebody a machine pre-loaded with Ubuntu Matei is gonna be so nice
It's such a great option for people that want to come from Windows. They're not comfortable with a totally different environment
They really like that paradigm that you know Matei lets them have I I think this is a great
I think this is gonna be a lot more common and surprisingly
Popey we didn't see that from elementary OS after their countdown ended did
Yeah, I got that completely wrong. Didn't I? Well, I was all in with you. I thought it was great
Yeah, Cassidy tagged us and said well nice try guys. It was good. It was fun to listen. Mm-hmm
Hey, it's fine. You know what? It was it was actually a pretty good announcement on their part tip of the hat for them
Putting out a good message. I thought they did a pretty good job
Well, congratulations Wimpy on and you guys can find out more at intro ware.com entro ware.com and
expect to see with Ubuntu Matei
150 no four shifts
Yeah, a couple of weeks that should be available and keep an eye on them because they've got they've got a couple of really interesting
Announcement. I wish I could tell you what one of them is because it's so up your alley Chris
It's untrue, but they've got a real interesting thing in the pipeline that um
Is is yeah, that'll be the next time I think I have a feeling I'm gonna be begging you to
To send me one. I'll be like
Alright well cool keep us posted when that happens
Do they have a newsletter where people that can want to like get the latest updates on what's going on?
I think they can subscribe to you. Yeah
They've got the various social media outlets and they do have a traditional newsletter via email
Which is low volume and they'll give you all the details there. Oh fantastic. Okay, cool
Alright guys, well
So I'm running that right here on this machine that I'm doing the visuals on this is my bonobo
I've got a gnome 3.16 on this. I've got a machine upstairs. That is my reloaded anti-gross box
that's running gnome 3.16 and
Here in studio with me today. I've also brought in my new XPS 13
Which is also running gnome 3.16 these are all machines that I use heavily every single day. These are my three main machines
That's where I spend universally 100% of my computer time is
Unless I'm editing video which is very very rare these days
Is on gnome 3.16 and I've talked a lot about gnome 3.16 on the show
I've just said it a hundred times and I haven't talked about some of the problems
It's had and we got in a note on the subreddit
From speed ghost about some of the issues. He's ran into with gnome 3.16 and the list is a bit extensive
So since that's gonna take a couple of minutes to break down and say it seems like a pretty decent topic change
I'll take a minute here and I'm gonna tell you a little about something that makes me feel
Like a wild man like I'm on the frontier of a new technology, and that's my friends at ting
Go to linux.ting.com linux.ting.com not only does that support the show and keeps us going which is you know a great idea
But it actually gets a $25 discount off your first ting device and if you have a ting compatible device
Which you probably do because they now support a wide range of GSM devices
They'll give you $25 service credit, or if you get something like you know one of those my fi devices
Then you get $25 a day to credit which will last you quite a while ting is mobile that makes sense
No contract you only pay for what you use. It's a flat six dollars for the line
That is ting right there in a nutshell
they have a wide GSM network and CDMA network right here in the US of a a
Brilliant dashboard to allow you to manage multiple devices. I pay six dollars. I got three phones
Three phones I pay six dollars
I feel like I'm some sort of crazy leolaport baller with all these phones, and I'm only paying six dollars for a line
It's genius, and if you really are savvy you can save so much money
You really can like my average bill for these three phones is below forty dollars
And then like this month is probably this month and maybe a little in the next month are my busy times with Linux fest Northwest
Where I'm making phone calls, and I'm downloading stuff on the road
I'm driving with maps going and all this kind of stuff that is like my hyper
Maybe I'm gonna hit 60 bucks. Maybe I don't know and actually it's kind of cool because the ting dashboard is really smart
It'll say hey based on your previous usage and your current usage as your trends you can set alerts
You can turn devices on and off so if you don't need to use them for a little while you don't got to pay
That's great for like those my five devices, and they have no whole customer service at 1855 ting
Ft dubs go check them out try out their savings calculator
You know what I really find nice about ting too is
The fact that they do have that customer service and as the GSM rollout is going there a little busy
So I've never in more than two years that I've been using ting needed to call
Seems like such a shame
But the reality is their dashboard is so great their help system is so well done, and they have established communities on reddit
There's a ting subreddit on YouTube on Twitter
They have very active forums where there's people getting Firefox OS and Ubuntu touch running on the ting network like I've never needed to call
in
It's really nice so go to linux.ting.com get that discount that way you can start saving early
And if you have a contract right now ting has an early termination relief program where they'll pay up to about I think
25% of your termination fee that's pretty nice and then now you don't have to worry about you get to own your device from ting
I've got the Nexus 5 on the ting network. They have a great range of devices. I think the Nexus 5 is really sweet
I know it's getting harder and harder to find it now unfortunately, but it's just such a great phone
And it works perfectly on the ting network on CDMA or GSM. I've ran it on both
It's nine dollars to get a GSM card
So if you've got something you could put GSM in it's nine dollars, and then you just pay for what you use get the Motorola
G this is a great Android phone
$91 no contract unlocked you own it
$91 then you're on ting right and you're getting that $25 discount
It's just crazy the Novotel MiFi 5580 hundred twenty one dollars
Then it's a six dollar hotspot after that hundred one hundred twenty one dollars you own that and then it's a six dollar hotspot
All right, you get the point. This is just great. Yes. They're a vibe hundred fifty nine dollars. They got the iPhone
Go check it out
Linux dot ting calm. This is a way better way to do mobile you have better things for your money
I've saved over two thousand dollars. Oh, they're selling the Nexus 6 directly now. Oh,
No Chris you know Chris has been wanting a new phone for Linux fest oh
Oh, no Linux dot ting calm go get yourself something nice
And then you know if you're like me you'll save about two thousand dollars in about two years
And then when you're buying a laptop from that money, you're like. Oh, yeah, why did I why did I support that duopoly Linux?
Ting calm thanks ting for sponsoring Linux unplug
Stuff I wonder if anybody in the mumble room has had any problems with gnome 3.6
Anybody in here had any issues other than like some of the obvious like you know maybe an extension doesn't work
Nope just an extension. Yeah, it's okay
So it's been really smooth for me on the three primary machines that I use it really smooth like the smoothest gnome upgrade
I've ever done
I do have one minor complaint, but it's extension related, and it's you know it'll it'll get worked out over time
But it's unfortunately it's really annoying, but
Speed ghosts is I have to say I'm surprised at all the gnome 3.16. Love when I've had nothing but problems
I love gnome 3.14
And I waited until all my extensions were up-to-date before I upgraded my arch laptop
When I did here's what I found my home dot config folder was empty and all previous settings for gnome and a few other apps
Were gone each time. I closed my laptop to hibernate or sleep it crashes
It opens all programs and starts the sessions new when it resumes as if I just restarted the whole computer
The temp directory which is four gigabytes for some reason is now usually half full on every startup
I admit I'm on the bleeding edge with arch which is what my background is
On the bleeding edge with arch which is what my backups are for as well as the stable dev machine that runs fedora
Oh hold on a second
That's rich, okay, stay did I hear you correctly and he said okay, that's cool
I like that I like the idea that something lasts for nine months is stable or whatever it is
All right, okay, so my dev machine that whatever it's fine. No floor is great. It's fedora super stable
So my dad I love the door
I really do the door my fedora machine my stable dev machine that runs for door. I'm just getting caught up on that
I'm sorry my stable dev machine that runs for door where I get most of my real work done
Okay, I just had to get past that
I didn't have any of these issues with gnome 3.14 and consider this release a step back for me
Things can look pretty all they want and they do look pretty but they break my workflow for prettiness then I'm unhappy
I love gnome 3.14, but I've had nothing problem, but problems with gnome 3.16
boom
Hmm. I'm still getting over the floor thing. Um boy
It's interesting because you know, obviously I've moved on to matei, you know, as far as my desktop experience
But this is what's getting me Matt. This is what's getting me worked up
This is this is getting into the butter of fest thing
I don't want to jump the gun too much but what I really hate and I'm telling you I'm starting I'm dancing right now
I'm so upset about this. I just I really I really really really really hate it when we just default to well, it's arch
That's the problem, you know, if you weren't rolling now, here's the thing
I think what that is is I think that is a bias that makes us jump to that conclusion
Is it possible that it's because it's arch absolutely always possible because you're rolling software
Absolutely every single time that is app certainly possible
but I believe it is irresponsible and a disservice to jump to the conclusion that it is arch because
Here's why I think we need to get past the bias that software is scary the developers
Develop software that is scary and that all upgrades are bad because really that is not true
Yes upgrades it always and inevitably eventually invite some regression, but on the whole
Upgrades on open source are generally improvements stability improvements feature improvements
Improvements and and most the time it doesn't break and this is from somebody who does have arch machines that are multiple years old
Now right to well wait two more two years old. I don't know very old. I mean, I just I hate jumping to arch
And the reason why this is I'm a little a little sensitive to it is not only did this post do it
But I got like a bunch of emails that do it
We have several threads that did it about the butter of s stuff last week
And it's just the immediate jump reaction to let's blame arch. Well, okay, that's fine
I suppose but it seems
Lazy, it seems it seems intellectually dishonest to just always assume. That's the cause
Well, it's so I think we take a step back and look at it from a practical point
I've had this problem upgrading release to release so it's not that it's arch at all
Any time you change off it is I mean you are choosing to enter an environment to where you're saying, okay
I clearly am tracking the packages that I have and if I need to roll back I will if you're not able to do that
Don't use it. I mean, yeah, that's I like
Like zero lock here Matt zero lock sounds like he's my kind of masochist. You you love the updates zero lock
You love them. I wake up first thing in the morning and I run an aphidist upgrade
I'm on Debbie and Sid so I get my my nice rolling updates as well
I used arch for nine months and updates for my crack
They're great
In the nine months that I was using arch. I only ever had one problem and it was because of a proprietary Nvidia driver
yeah, yeah, I
I also I I get a little bit of an endorphin squirt when I see a big list of updates
And I also get a little like oh when it's only like three updates
I'm like, but then I'm like, well, at least I got three updates because I really never want to run that
That's how bad I am see it on the opposite now, it's like I I you know again
I'm big on taking responsibility for your desktop if you broke it you bought it deal with it
It's your fault. But at the same time it's like I don't necessarily want a lot of updates unless it's actually offering me
Security or a feature, you know if it offers those two things cool blaster
You agree with Matt like if I decide to run arts that I'm taking my life into my own hands, right?
Yeah, I feel like if you're gonna be running arch or really any bleeding of this road that offers a bleeding edge
Option then you're kind of taking your love into your own hands there when you run updates
You're accepting the responsibility that something might break
I mean I grant you that but I what I argue is the the level of risk that it actually genuinely is see
My point is not that what you say is inaccurate. I grant you it is wholly accurate
What I would like to argue is how much of a risk it it truly represents and wimpy you've had a workstation for how long?
Three years now. My main workstation is installed three years ago. And so what is your what is your thought is rolling inherently?
More dangerous and unstable but just yet manageable. How is it?
No, I don't think rolling is inherently more dangerous
I mean you've got someone there zero has got a sit installation and he's rolling with that
You know software developers don't just throw out releases and hope it works, you know, they have been tested
So it's not because it's a new package. It's untested software. It's already being tested, right?
All that's happened is it's being packaged so you can install it conveniently, right? And it just happens a package faster in arch
Yeah, yeah that that's
Sort of one of the or other days he yeah. Yeah
Well, you know if you look at me you just reckon but you know fedora rawhide for example
They're they're pretty much on the same on the same curve as arch
But I would actually I wouldn't compare arch and fedora in terms of rawhide in terms of stability though
Because rawhide doesn't prom I mean there is some intention in fedora for the for the system to be stable, right?
Where was with rawhide they will they will they sometimes have a work in progress that gets introduced into rawhide? Yeah
Yeah, but the thing with arch is that
Managing your updates in arch Linux is not simply a case of running pacman or pac a you are
You're responsible for actually tracking what the new configuration changes were that were introduced by packages and then merging those and
If you don't read the documentation that explains how to do that and you ignore it
Eventually bad things will happen, but that's a contract that arch Linux makes with you at the outset
You know
They explain that you have to be a competent Linux user and you have to be prepared to learn how the system is put together
And learned how to maintain it. I
Agree and like Ryan says Ryan you you think that means arch right there if you accept that means it's not for everybody, right? I
Agree. Yeah, I I don't think that arch is for everybody
Yeah, absolutely
Just because you can run arch and just because you can run the updates doesn't mean that I mean like wimpy said you have to
Be tracking, you know
what's changing and also be aware of what's already in your environment and if there's gonna be any breakage and that's why you know
Distributions that are out there that aren't rolling release are good for some people because the peak
That falls on someone else to test all these things and make sure that there's compatibility
Yeah, I would argue though that we put too much faith in that and we put too little faith in the rolling system
Like like neither one are as good as we pretend or as bad as we pretend them to be
Yeah, yeah
That stuff breaks under Ubuntu all the time and other distros as well sure
nobody can anybody who's been using Linux for longer than a year knows that this stuff happens and and things break even when it
Is curated by a distro, but yeah at the same time
As we've talked about before as you talked about before there's there's a certain level of competency
That you want someone to have before they start, you know curating their own
you know arch Linux installation and that's you want then that person to be
you know able to look at the changes that are coming through make sure that's going to work in their environment because I
Have used 3.16 and on a rolling release distro and it worked just fine. So yeah, I you know
Yes
I think that it that person has to be ready to
Troubleshoot problems that they have like he he described now. I like tech dragon tech dragons like no
No roll all of the things so rolling for everything tech dragon all of the things
No, if it's not my desktop, it's rolling. Oh
So not all of them. I trust nine get nine terabytes of files to a rolling distro
Yeah, I would be completely devastated if that went out of the way
So you have pretty you you feel pretty confident I actually I don't blame you really too much
It's a little risky for my file storage. I've been pretty happy with free now is right now just because I like ZFS quite a bit
Oh, I'm on ZFS. Oh, okay. Well, there you go, but it's ZFS on Linux and rolling with current. Yeah. Yeah, which distro
It's on a bunch of but I'm actually running it on the current upstream unstable packages
Of course you are
Because every morning brilliant yes
Another way to look at it, too
Is that when you're working with an operating system at the end of the day if your user data is at some level safe
Whether it be backed up or off-site or you just feel comfortable in your home directory setup, you know
Fixing anything is just a matter of time. Yeah, you know and it's really not the end of the world
when we get to the to the follow-up on my file system loss, I will I
Will follow up on some some interesting ideas the community has for some really nice efficient backups that are really like low-key not bit
High-impact kind of stuff, right? So we'll cover those in a few minutes in the show
I just had a couple more follow-up items before we get to that
Because I do want to because that that that got up that generate a lot of feedback last week
but we have I have seen a steady trickle of interest in the Dell XPS 13 continue now that the developer edition is out and
I wanted to give thanks to slack warrior in the subreddit who mentioned that the BIOS update for the Dell XPS 13
Which I have right here
Does fix quite a few problems. I was having so now the current version as of this recording is the a03 or a 03
BIOS and so for the Dell XPS 13 the one that came with Windows or the one that runs Linux
Once you install that BIOS update one of the things that immediately starts working is sound
So that's really nice. The sound card just started working instantly also issues
I was having with the trackpad earlier are now pretty much all cleared up
The trackpad seems to be one of the better trackpads. I've used under Linux two finger scrolling is working quite well
The the touch-to-click works really well the laptop itself is now with these issues resolved
I still have some problems with the DisplayPort but with these primary issues resolved the laptop itself is becoming one of my favorite computers
It's now it's my I bring it with me all the time because it's super portable
It's it's I think it's about as light as the MacBook the new MacBook with only the USB C connector
But it's yeah, it's a lot better of a machine
So now this is because it's so light
I just toss it in my bag and I bring it with me all the time and I've been finding myself really enjoying it and
There's just a few a few nagging issues with high DPI
I wouldn't buy the laptop based on the screen, but the screen is quite nice and with the new BIOS update
I would actually give the XPS 13 a pretty solid recommendation developer edition or the Windows edition
I would go with the developer edition so that we don't have to mess with the Wi-Fi
The webcams working the sound is working Wi-Fi is working
It all seems to be working quite quick and the other nice thing
Oh also keyboard
I had some keyboard repeating issues that are now solved because the BIOS update and the other nice thing is
You don't have to have Windows or DOS to update the BIOS
You download an exe file a quote-unquote exe file from Dell's website. It's 2.4 pounds. Thank you micro 98
So it is it's more heavy than the Macbook, but it's so great
You download this quote-unquote exe file from the Dell website
You put it on like a USB flash drive and then you boot and on the boot menu options
There's an update BIOS option and it reads the flash drive and it just flashes the BIOS right there and no Windows or free DOS
Or nothing needed to update the Dell BIOS. So that's really nice
Let's see
I guess I'll just give a quick Linux fest update just since we've been doing those
And I'm gonna do it to lead to Linux fest here, which is almost almost here. So don't worry. Let's see
One thing that's kind of cool. I'm not directly related to Linux fest
But as the host arrive over the next week beginning on Friday and then trickling in after that
I'm gonna try to snag some of them for tech talk today and maybe grab one or two of them to join us on Linux
Unplugged next week if the timing works, I don't know. It might just be Noah who's in town
Then I think Alan arrives on Wednesday, so I'll try to maybe get Alan on a tech talk today in the future
Maybe we'll try to get Noah here in studio on unplugged to join us
So as as hosts are arriving, I'll try to grab some of them and and bring them here
We've got all kinds of stuff planning. Everybody's gonna
Have some some time in studio to record something for their shows, which will be great
We'll do Kota radio in studio. We'll do BSD now in studio all of that stuff, dude
So we'll do two we're gonna shoot two tech snaps in studio
So a lot of great content coming up with with everybody here in person
Some for the first time ever and then it'll be ending at Linux fest Northwest
So it's gonna be a pretty cool week lead up to Linux fest Northwest as well
April 25th and 26 and we'll be live streaming that over JB live TV Saturday and Sunday
We'll be recording the Linux action show there at Linux fest. So you're welcome to join us Sunday
We'll have hopefully some seats for you to sit at last year
We just kind of made do with what we had. So hopefully we can do that again
Um, and and if you're gonna be there also, I encourage you to join our meetup. We now have let's see 130 it looks like
Yes, 130 participants over at meetup comm slash Jupiter broadcasting
The first event we have listed is a local and it is the local Linux fest
The next event you might see on there will be another local event. That'll be Linux unplugged 100
We're at episode 88 right now, and I think I want to do 100 on location
So that'll be a local meetup event and I'm also opening this up to the individual hosts
so I've offered it to Alan and Noah and
Michael Dominic as they travel to go to their different meetups and different fests and different events and
Mike's doing like a developer thing and he's gonna be traveling to New York
I've invited them to use the meetup page as well to meet up with you in different locations and
Alan goes all over the world. So that could be a pretty cool tool meetup comm slash Jupiter broadcasting
If we have an event in your area be a great well great spot
We'll be organizing it you'll see a lot of local stuff because I want to do more
I want to do more out of the studio stuff
but from time to time you'll definitely see stuff all over the world meetup comm slash Jupiter broadcasting if you want to get in
on that and then
We might eventually turn that into kind of like a lug thing
where we take if we get it and what I would really like to do is if we got enough people joining us
And we could take the really hardcore Linux user group and we could like do stuff for unplugged
Record stuff for unplugged go when okay now here. Okay, let's just get crazy
like what if we use this meetup group to like organize like a big like
Install fest or something like we go to a lot like we like I would I would pre work out
Like an arrangement like at a library like hey, can we come in and do all the maintenance on your computers?
We'll blow them out. We'll clean them up. Well, you know fix the keyboards up. Well
Maybe we could even set aside a little budget to replace some of the components and by the way, we'll install Linux and
Then we just use this and we record the whole thing
Hey, we go total reality show style where we're like we'll do like we'll have a room for confessionals with the camera
Well people like they'll like they'll sit down in front of the camera be like yeah
I wasn't sure how that install was gonna go when that drive started clicking it got really tense
We weren't sure how that was gonna develop even though it was like already totally pre-done
And we just have them go back and like record those confessional so we could cut to them
I'm telling it sounds like I'm joking. I would totally do this if this meetup thing works out week
Let's go use our powers for good
Let's go install some Linux some places and record make sure if we could if we could seriously we could big brother this Linux installations
We could go deploy Linux convert people to Linux and make show content out of it meetup.com slash Jupiter broadcasting
You think I'm kidding test me go sign up. Let's do some meetups and let's see if I do it cuz I'm serious
Could be cool
And even if you're not in the area, you can still sign up for when we are in your location
Yeah, all right. This is well. Somebody's trigger-happy in the mumble room. Whoa there you knock you
If I have to come in there I will do not make me turn this show around
I'm glad you guys got the dad reference
mumble room
Mumble room. I will turn this show around. Hey Matt. All right. We're gonna talk about my
MyRig blowing up. Oh boy. I
Do this sometimes and I seem to do it the most on this show and I think it's just sort of the fleet free-flowing nature
Of the show or and I just get on I just get going and last week
You know, I was raw Matt. It was rough because my my main rig my my boo
My bae, it's just such a stupid word it died
Anyways, so I I mean what really happened is there was you know, when I kernel update in a butter fest thing
There's a hard lock and what I I applied the NOAA philosophy was like, let's see
Take me about five ten minutes to fix this and I've got this USB thumb drive with the latest anti-gross image on there
I've been thinking about reloading anyways pop and I you know, I reload because I have all my data backed up
It's not a big deal make sense
It does suck some time up and it always sucks up more time than I think like every time I go to reload a machine
I'm like, oh what this
No, man, it always takes a whole day
It always does every damn time and every time somebody tells you I can get it installed in 25 minutes
That's lying because even once you get the software installed you got to change all the settings
You got to change the themes. You got to change the everything. You just shut up. It takes more than 25 minutes
So I I guess a little raw I came on the show
I talked about how I kind of regretted using butter fs
I wish I hadn't used butter fs and I kind of got up on a soapbox and I kind of said what I think
Well, I still think this I kind of think that butter fs is an amateur show and I kind of think that butter fs
Weakens Linux and I kind of think the butter fs is a shame and I kind of wish the butter fs was in a lot
Better place so that way Linux had a much serious and much more competitive answer to ZFS
I didn't mean to say it was the end of the world for Linux
I didn't mean to say the butter fs was trash
but of course of course I kind of did and of course I even said I'd rather use NTFS which
Was straight up that was kind of a I thought about I should go clip myself because that really was straight-up trolling and that deserved
Clip, but I just I'll admit to that. So I have some follow-up
I have some thoughts on file systems and we hopefully heavens that will join us here in a moment
And well, he is here. Hopefully he'll get into a good discussion with me on XFS
I got ridiculed to no end no end for my choice of using XFS people assumed that I was a bozo
I didn't know what the hell I was doing that I I picked up
I picked some esoteric ancient file system and while
Spitting on butter fs and condemning it for a future adoption by the open-source community because my words are going out over the air
seriously, so we're gonna get into all of that and
The lessons I learned from that but first I want to thank Linux Academy. Why because they're perfect for you, baby
I know you Linux Academy knows you why because they're Linux users. They're open-source enthusiasts
They're developers and they're educators and they came together and they created a truly unique thing Linux Academy and I get them
I get their passion and I get coming together and making something better than anything. Anybody else has I get that because they're
Enthusiastic about Linux and open-source. That means they produce content about Linux and open source
It's far beyond anything anybody else produces and you can find out for yourself to go to Linux Academy comm slash unplug
I could tell you what courses they have
But I don't need to because anything that's relevant anything that makes you a better professional anything in the Linux space
That's important. They have courseware on it
They have seven plus Linux distributions you can choose from and I'm saying if you want to go learn how to use Docker on Red Hat
Enterprise server go do it. You need to know how to use it on Ubuntu go do that
They can do that those spin up servers for you on demand when the courseware requires it
They'll give you a public access you get to SSH into that bad boy
And if you take advantage of some of their AWS courseware
which a few folks in our chat room have been I've been hearing from a few folks recently seems like the
AWS stuff just keeps growing and growing and growing and so people need to learn it
It's very relevant. And so their courseware on this stuff is top-notch and the other thing
That I love as somebody who had to jump into AWS when it was fairly new. I got bit big time
I had a $200 bill just because I left my rig my AWS rig that I was using for training
It was 230 something 280 something. I got a big bill because I just left it on I left it on
Well, they include the AWS or instances as part as your part of your Linux Academy's training
You just go over to Linux Academy comm slash unplugged get our super awesome 33% discount 33%
It's a powerful number and you should go over then get more powerful by making yourself more valuable
Seriously, it's very rewarding and it's sort of mind-blowing when something you've known like a technology that you've wanted to wrap your head around
But it has seemed so nebulous where to start when you go to Linux Academy and they have it broken out for you
You will learn this part about this technology in this many minutes
for me that is a game-changer because that is a
Quantifiable boom that I get that it's no longer nebulous. Boom. I what five and a half hours for Ruby. No problem
I get that I can spend five and a half hours to learn Ruby that seems worth it to me and with their scenario based labs
You'll actually get how to use these technologies in a production environment. And that's the final gap right there. They close it Linux Academy
Comm slash unplugged. They got a huge announcement coming up in just a couple of days April 16th 9 p.m
Central I've been telling you about this for a while because it's a big deal and I'm really excited and these guys are super passionate
About it too. So that's that's gonna be great
They're gonna stream it live over at Linux Academy comm go sign up now and you just get all of the new stuff and you always
Will as part of your Linux Academy subscription Linux Academy comm slash unplugged keep this show on the air train yourself up and
Go support one of our local Linux friends Linux Academy comm slash unplugged and a big thanks to Linux Academy for sponsoring the unplugged program
You guys are crushing it
So for those of you who didn't catch last week's episode super super quick version is my number one rig died my baby
It gave up the ghost couldn't mount my main partition couldn't boot and there were several options
I could have had including, you know use a live CD
Try the fallback kernel have file system snapshots. I mean, there's like a lot of different tracks
I could have taken I opted for the nuke and pave and I and part of the reason was is I was done with butter
FS is this directly caused by butter FS? Mm-hmm. It wouldn't have happened if I wasn't using butter FS ergo for an end-user
Yes, right. It doesn't really matter. Technically. Was it a kernel bug working with butter?
FS was it a problem with butter FS at the end of the day if I wasn't using butter FS, I wouldn't have a problem
Right and for users, that's all that matters. So in my opinion
Probably means it's time to stop using butter FS on computers
They're important to me and what I found to be interesting is the number one piece of feedback
I got wasn't that I was using butter fs as well. God damn it Chris. You're using arch you idiot
You're using arch
Well, that's your problem
Well, see I kind of disagree see I kind of think that this is yet another example of how butter fs
just isn't really fully baked into Linux, but people came to butter fs as defense and
We had a we had a whopper of one
Sent in to the subreddit and I liked the title quite a bit the title grabbed me
I wasn't so hot on the content of the post
But he has a good point here and there so I want to address it
Why I think butter fs remains the future for those who want it and this is you know
And this is why I wanted to use butter fs2 because I felt like Linux really it needs a solid solution here
It needs a pretty advanced file system that can stay competitive
It needs something that also allows us to do things
We just don't do today like we have heard some discussions about actually using butter fs to distribute software
Like there's a lot of really cool possibilities when your file system is modern and awesome
And I'm going to talk about how PCB SD leverages some of those in a minute
But back to butter fs
These kinds of features are kind of fundamentally required like a lot of people came back and said you don't need these things
That's not your choice to make I think the market says we do need these things and I want these things as well
And so Corky writes here Chris on the latest episode of Linux unplug took the time to vent his latest frustrations
the issue in question is a bug that causes arch not to boot on kernel 3 dot 19 dot 1 dash 3 and
18 dot 9 and 3 dot 14 dot 35 so a decent range and at quite a few others have experiences on arch and butter fs
Setups my frustration is not that he blamed it on butter fs
This is a standard bug you expect in some kernel ver my frustration is not that he had it
But that he did blame it on butter fs and this was a common thread and again
I feel like this is a bit of a nuance here
He says this was a standard bug you would expect in some kernel versions and it's quite common for kernel upgrade to cause a set
Of users to have unbootable set of systems
That is the nature of Linux development and it is true the nature of arch
These Linux kernel versions will not be released on Ubuntu open source of Fedora and will never reach Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Debian
Linux LTS releases are chosen because every other kernel version seems to destroy a particular set of users experiences
I'm actually gonna stop there. That's a pretty common argument and it's really not true
Big big gotchas. There's a pretty good chance. They won't make it into some of those kernels, but kernel 3.13 is a shit show and
There is a pretty major distribution that a couple of them that ship the ship with kernel 3.13
So it is not necessarily true that vendors won't ship a bad kernel
Because they do and then what ends up happening is you get anchored to that piece of crap
For the length of that distro or you go outside the box and end up replacing which a lot of people do and that's not
Much better of a situation and then you run up exactly in the same situation. I ran into
So he goes on to say arch Linux is an insane distribution because it lacks sanity checks other
Distributions are same because they have a team of people who are fixing these breakages in stable packages not development experimental technologies
I get I kind of disagree there as well
Some do some don't it's kind of a wide range, right?
Well, and I think part of the problem too is a lot of times when people see breakage 99.9% of the time
it's because you went outside of the box and if you're in a boon to person that'd be a PPA and if you are an
Arch person that's because you actually went with the arch user repository. That is not official arch
That is you decided to try something creative and that's cool, but you're kind of on your own there
And so a lot of times I think that people when people experience breakage on arch that's usually where it happens
And that's user error. Here's what I'm kind of coming to though. It's good because I think fundamentally Corky and others
Do have a bit of a point and that point is
Maybe it is true that if you are going to use a rolling release
You have to kind of settle on a subset of technologies to utilize that are like sort of tried-and-true
technologies
That maybe don't have as much fluctuation
And this is something I've been this is something I haven't fully fully formed yet
But it seems to me like I something I've kind of been I
Kind of have been falling into like for example when it comes to servers
And if I want so if I want something to be server
But I want to be a rolling distro
I'll sort of keep it really lean like it only do a couple of things and I just spin up another VM and then it
Only does a couple of things and then I spin up another VM that way I don't have a bunch of bunch of packages on a
Rolling server right and that's one way
I sort of mitigate the risk on servers and I can individually snapshot those before I upgrade this and this is great for digital
And this is great for digital ocean. This is that's
This is how I do it now
um, and and the same and and and the same is not really necessarily true, uh, uh for for your desktop, but
I I essentially have found that if I kind of do
More common file systems if I do more common things like uh, maybe instead of using kde on a rolling release
I go with gnome or go with xfce or mate
Uh, and maybe if you know these kinds of like maybe if instead of using butterfs I use extended 4 or xfs
then I sort of reduce my amount of risk and so I find myself sort of
Narrowing my choices in what I will fully take advantage of if there might be some additional risk
But at the same time the choices I find myself landing on are pretty solid
So I want to take a moment here and and and and bring heaven's revenge in because he's my xfs buddy
And I really wanted him here last week when I was talking about xfs because heaven you were the one that really sold me on
Xfs originally and so I could you do you want to just take a moment and sort of break down in your mind?
Butterfs versus xfs and why maybe one might be a better choice over the other
If you have that sure, but it will also
oh, yeah, I generally do but the
point that you brought up a little bit earlier about arch and being a rolling distribution and having
The whole problem be arch and having it just the nature of being rolling that is
Approaching this problem from the wrong perspective because butterfs
Is an experimental file system. It's blaming arch for a problem that butterfs has specifically tried to
Over advertise itself. It says it's a stable file system. They tried to market like that
I think a year ago
Stable or a stability of a file system is simple
No on disk or no incompatible on disk format changes if a file system is
On like if it's stable or the on disk format is stable
That is a stable file system. Otherwise, it is not the butterfs
Developers have claimed it to be stable while it is not it is still in flux. So your problem is from butterfs not
By virtue of it being a rolling distribution. Yeah, this is an interesting point. In fact, what they say is yeah
We may very well have format changes, but we'll try to make sure that newer kernels can still mount the old stuff
Yeah, they try but there's always
Corner cases that kick everybody in the ass all the time the most I noticed even open suzes
They try to say that it's stable and let's say for the most cases for the most
most cases for the most common and
No are not complex situations if it's just pretty much
Putting files on the disk. You should be okay if you're trying to do anything relatively new with the distribution or with the
Capabilities of butterfs you will run into something
So would you uh have anything there or shall I go into the xfs and butterfs? Yeah
Yeah, continue on because I think that's a that's a that's a that's a good a good point
Uh, well, actually i'll let the person finish up vacuuming behind you and i'll let quirky respond to his uh,
His subreddit post and then we'll transition into the discussion of xfs and butterfs and I hope this isn't too dry
But the reason why I want to really hash this stuff out with you guys
Is because I get this question a lot like which file system should I use?
And then when I say which file system i'm using
I find out that a lot of people out there go and deploy that and I didn't know like sometimes when I announce what i'm
Using I didn't really realize that then people will also use that same one
So I just really kind of want to make sure we discuss this
Um and and really talk about the advantages disadvantages because I think it's pretty important
And and and I do admit that sometimes my sysadmin bias sort of gets in the way
But quirky, uh, you want to touch on anything I mentioned from your your subreddit post?
Yeah, my subreddit post was
well
Um in development, it's not a professional view because i'm not a developer
But i'm i'd agree with some of heaven's revenge's points. Um
I have to say
But fs definitely has been getting better as someone who's been subscribed to mailing lists
Has been following their gotchas wiki. One of the great things about wikis is you can look through the history
And if you look through the history
It's gone from nearly two pages long in recent years to
Well less than a paragraph now it yeah, it's not done and i'm not
Not particularly happy that they use that word stable to try and get media attention
But it's definitely a lot better
so, um
uh
Alan has a great quote and I don't i'm gonna butcher it and I I don't know exactly how it goes
but uh, alan says that uh
that uh
That trusting the butter of fs is going to get better one day is like trusting the serial murder is going to stop killing
people one day and the reason why he says that is when they shipped a zfs it was
That was done. It the format was stable when they shipped it. It was it was baked and and it has it has always
Yes, exactly. It has always been considered stable since then and then they build on top of it with feature flags
It was from day one. They considered it production grade and the and and that is
And honestly when they said that I was like, yeah screw you guys
No file system is production grade until it's been out for a while and it has it has had some growing pains
But it is now, you know widely considered just sort of like, you know
the master race file system and so, uh, uh
That is a fundamental approach to zfs
That I guess it just seems like butter fs is like a top-down approach like
All this great stuff and then make it stable. Whereas zfs is like make it stable first then add all the great stuff
And I think that's that's a big difference but heavens now I wanted it's probably good
Then this is probably a good time to start talking about xfs and butter fs. So heavens. Why don't you take it back?
Okay, well ever since
Approximately 2008. I've been using xfs on everything that I can use it for it is all
Desktop or external drive usages. It is not let's say corporate
business usage, but
Don't let that turn you down because nasa and pretty much every large government agency
Probably uses xfs for their mass storage systems as it does. Yeah, it is awesome
Oh, yeah, because sgi the sgi
master blades like super big iron servers
That's xfs. So it has a long history back from irix or irix way back in the freaking 1980s days
and
I've never found a problem with it
They used to say that it used to lose data, but I have never seen that personally and it is
let's say
an incorrect assumption to
assume that it is based on its past problems that's basically
There's not really a file system that doesn't have some growing pains all file systems is essentially have
Some issues like little problems zfs has as well. I have been using I have used xfs since it was
Almost since it was originally ported to linux
And the reason why and I did this under opal susa or actually at the time it was susa enterprise
uh
The reason why is xfs originally was one of the few file systems under linux that extended attribute support and so
Because I was integrating it into a windows domain
And the windows administrators needed to be able to right click on files and change the permissions in the windows explorer dialogue
You needed to be able to support those ntfs style attributes under linux. They don't have something that's sophisticated
so you have to have something called
Extended attributes and your file system has to be able to support this
And xfs is now a lot of file systems do but xfs at the time was one of the few under linux that did
I think maybe riser fs was close to this. And so, uh, I I went xfs across a a
A a set of six file servers for this bank that were under massive heavy load and xfs never once lost a file for us
True it's x it's extended attributes and external based
And basically that I could change the amount of log buffers
That the file system had I used to tweak the hell out of every file system
I could possibly try
Just because I started on gen 2 and was having so much fun, especially the tail
I was packing on riser as well. Yep. I did that. Gosh. Wow, it's bringing back memories and wimpy
Uh, you had a comment on the old xfs bug, right?
Yeah
It still gets brought up as though it's current and um, there was a bug in xfs
It was over 10 years ago and it would truncate files to zero bytes
10 years ago. And so yeah, it was a long long time ago
So you still see people referring to that as oh it'll eat your data and it's just it's just rubbish tech dragon has
a lot of them
Oh a tech dragon go ahead and slip in the inconvenient truth about butter fest and i'll bounce it back to heaven
The same company that put so much effort into the start of zfs
Is the one currently employing at least one if not two or three of the people contributing to butter fs
So it's not like they don't know there is yeah, there is oracle people working on butter fs
Chris left oracle. He now works at facebook. Oh, that's right. That is true
That's ages ago. Yeah, that is right. That is right. He wasn't the only one no, but he was the main guy
That's true. Uh, and he works at facebook and facebook
I also got a little bit of scoop on how facebook uses butter fs which totally makes sense
They use it in a totally different way than than I was using it. Um, so that yeah, they they literally like they use it. Um,
In like a like a ram environment where it's not even like it's not even a persistent file system
Like they wipe it all the time
So I bet it has very few issues because it's constantly getting wiped out
Uh, so heaven if heavens did you want to pick up from there?
Sure, i'll just finish with xfs is not a legacy file system
They do constant refinements code quality and like improvements dead code removal
Everything that you would think in modern and well-kept up-to-date stable file system should be and have within a modern linux kernel
is I used to watch its mailing list and
And watch its git log as they done their commits and watch the evolution of it
It also now has on disk checksum so it can detect on disk errors when they happen
It just can't fix them within the file system because I they consider that other systems
Or at least other subsystems of the storage system should handle things, you know
well
Unix philosophy do one thing and do it. Well, right xfs store files. Well, that's what it rocks at better
If I should go on to that
Its concepts are beautiful. I love it
But b trees are one of my most favorite data structures that i've ever used red black trees
The thing is is it?
It is a little bit too early for it to be as stable as I need it to be or would want it to be
I consider it far more advanced than zfs could ever be
As zfs complain about oh, they can't defragment. Oh, they can't reseal or oh, they can't
Reallocate files on the disk. You can't remove they can't deduplicate
You can't remove a disk you can't well, of course
They've just added the ability to remove a disk directly from a pool. I believe that was just added
After all this time maybe I think I don't know if it's actually in production
Yeah, enterprise usage right, right. It is very very enterprise usage. It's almost it is almost it is exclusive care at all
Yes, they don't care pretty much at all about desktop or laptop usage you must have money
You have to throw disks at the problem. That's what zfs is built around
But butterfs they are a lot more
Desktop focused it's more practical. It has the duplication it can do encrypted or encryption
And well zfs says oh no, we can't do that. We have to do I can't remember that darn feature that
as I try to I love zfs too, but
It just let me down so much like ubuntu has in the past. I don't like touching it anymore
I just hope I've never had that
It's been totally rock solid. I've never had any issues, but I the problems I have with zfs are
Like exactly what you're saying is anytime. I need a storage anytime
I have a solution for zfs the answer is throw more disks at it
Even when it's like I have a disk that died and I need to remove it. Okay, cool add four more drives
Set up another pool move stuff around and then you can extract that one drive once you destroy that pool
What no no, no, I just want to put another terabyte drive in yeah
No, probably the better thing to do is buy four more drives and it's like what?
And it is seriously like oh, I see you expect me to have a blank check for storage all the time
That is their assumption which is unfortunate
so I just hope that they'll come around one day and see the reality that there's more than just the server that there's
probably millions
Or hundreds of millions of more users of desktop usages than server usages
Even though there sure is a lot of or a large number of server
Installations, so I would say
NFS I love the snapshots. That's awesome. But they they had this weird bug that they
Had this table or they didn't
There are entries within the table in order to do the sub volumes. They limited themselves
Artificially and they had this ridiculous bug which also
Was an on disk format change in order to fix that problem
It was so weird how they just said. Oh, yeah
We'll never have to worry about that and all of a sudden. No, it blew up their file system
They have to completely wipe and re you know copy everything back into the file system to make it usable again
Of course all the varonix articles or feronix articles
you can look at so many different problems that butterfests has had in the past, but
I think it's got
Promise it just needs some time. Yeah, I think it's still too early. Maybe I I agree
I think it's probably it's probably going to be a down the road thing. My current is awesome
Yeah, my current solution right now is xfs for like my main rig
So my boot partition is extended for I was hard on extended for last week
But in reality i'm using it in a few places. My boot is ext4 xfs for is so awesome
Xf. Okay. Well, hold on a second
Hold that thought and then my my root partition of my home partitions are xfs and then my editing and gaming mirror that I still
Haven't set up yet, uh are going to be I think extended for again
I might do butterfs there, but i'm thinking where i'm going to use butterfs now is in sort of low load
Where the the file set isn't changing a lot the size of what's in there isn't changing where with editing
I'm constantly adding huge files and then deleting them and downloading steam games and then deleting them
And I don't know if that's a proper use for butterfs and but but at the same time
There are a couple of games like uh bioshock 2 or yeah bioshock infinite
I guess that's not bioshock 2 that doesn't work under xfs
Um because it uses that uh eos wrapper and so it doesn't make me all that inclined to want to use xfs on that
For that for that use for that for that editing gaming mirror
Well, that's an unusual gotcha that you have found yeah, yeah it is isn't it but tell me about xfs 4
Oh xfs 4 is my second favorite file system or at least most second most trusted file system if people are a little bit too
Too hesitant in order to try xfs just because it seems a little bit too different x4 is beautiful. It is
Based upon x3 which is thus based upon x2 not xfs for years and years of stable
Oh, yes for ext4 ext4 is based on ext3 ext2 talking about extended for it's they've built upon it
Yeah, yes extended for they didn't have a log or no journal x2 added the journal x3 added extents
metadata to the file system ext4
That has so much man years behind it and stability behind it is
It is trustworthy in my mind. It's
a lot of clustering file systems
All have to be or almost require either x4 or xfs
better fs is just more of a
buzz word that a lot of people say oh, yeah
I agree go for it ext4. All right
So I will i'm gonna i'm gonna probably end it here because it's probably dying about file systems
But extended for is a great file system. I'm using it for my boot file system. However, it's not selling any hardware
xfs maybe
No, probably not. But zfs definitely sells hardware. Just ask our friends at ix systems zfs sells machines
And people are switching out and I know this because i'm being told by people that are doing the work
People are switching out their linux file servers for free bsd machines using zfs and they're not opting to run zfs on linux
And that's why that's why I actually refuse to run free bsd because it doesn't have a correct or a good xfs progress
But port in the port street if I if they did have a correct xfs port
That I could use my xfs file system from in free bsd. I would probably run free bsd. Yeah, it's just
people
but for for businesses that want zfs they're going free bsd and uh, I just
That's that's the only reason but for for my laptop and my desktop
I'm going to extend it for xfs extend it for an xfs
And I want to tell you about things I could have done differently now and a couple of really kind of quick and easy
Sort of really no
duh kind of backup solutions or recovery solutions that you could do if you ever run into a problem like this and things that maybe
I could have done if I wasn't sort of already primed to reload which I sort of was primed to reload. Um, but before we do that
As you know
This show is sponsored by our great friends at digital ocean and it wasn't I just mentioning digital ocean digital ocean is really a great
It's it's like my secret
Because well not really because I tell you guys about it all the time
So if I keep though that i'm not very good at secrets as you might be able to tell
but like if if I was a contractor would
But it kind of because it makes me feel like i'm a boss it makes me feel like I got a data center like I
Got multiple data centers
Because i'm just like, you know what? I could use a linux rig today and just go spin one up
And that makes me feel like okay
I just got I got infrastructure on demand like a mouse and that's that's why I say it's my secret
But really you guys all know about it
In fact, some of you might have known about it before I did
But if you don't know about it
Let me tell you because digital ocean is a game changer and they're really taking linux and they're taking kvm and they're utilizing open source
And they're really making a super compelling product
They're a simple cloud hosting provider dedicated to offering the most intuitive and easy way for you to spin up your own cloud server
You're going to get root access to this bad mama jama. They got an html5 console for this business
So that way you can get up in there with your web standards
You're not going to have to complain about flash or java and you can get started in less than 55 seconds and pricing plans start
Only five dollars a month that's less than your crappy burger or your pretentious coffee
For the entire month to get yourself your own cloud server and you can start in less than 55 seconds
You got that to spare. What are you a boss? Of course you got I I could do that right now
While i'm doing a show it so fast 55 seconds for five dollars a month
55 seconds you can and honestly some people do it less than that and that's one of the things I love because I know
I'm going to get in there. I'm going to done fast. You're going to get 512 megabytes of ram 20 gigabyte ssd
One cpu and a terabyte of transfer
Digital ocean is data center locations in new york san francisco singapore amsterdam and london and that major center there the internet center in germany
Well, a little birdie tells me they're gonna have a data center there very soon as well. I think you know what?
Why not put some files up in there? It's great
It's a great way to distribute files like with sync thing or bit torrent sync all over the world
And one of the great things you'll really enjoy when you're over at digital ocean is the interface to manage your droplets
It's top notch
I've been in it for like a million years you guys
And I was like one of the first fools messing around with vmware's proprietary horrible gooey's and man
Nothing burned me more than administering all of these linux based
Vms from a windows box because the vmware crapware only worked from a windows rig to manage all of these esx boxes
And gosh that drive me crazy
That's where that was sort of my introduction to like large-scale virtualization
So when I saw this digital ocean interface
I I wanted to have its baby. I wanted to go get a uterus surgically implanted into my body
And I wanted to be impregnated by digital ocean. I was so impressed by this interface. I'm not even joking
It's incredible. You can do snapshots dns management one-click deployments. You can do you can move between data centers
You can transfer between customers. You can destroy machines. I mean like it's the best interface
I have ever seen to do any of this and all of that functionality can be replicated with their straightforward api
And they just released their brand new api version 2.0
So go over to digital ocean try it like the one-click install go play with like some freaking core os
It's like the new hotness or if you want to be a masochist and cut yourself go install free bsd
I'm, not going to judge does it sound like i'm judging because i'm not
But here's the best part use our promo code do unplugged
Don't be a jerk. You'll save yourself some money. You're gonna get ten dollar credit and you support this show do unplug
They apply that to your account too. There's no credit card required. Now. What excuse do you got?
You're going to get your own linux rig powered by linux kvm ssd infrastructures
Tier one bandwidth any data center you want because they got lots of them
You can do one-click deployments to some of the most badass open source software available in the world
And you get a ten dollar credit when you use the promo code do unplugged and you're supporting the show
That's a no-brainer digital ocean.com. Go check it out. Use the promo code do unplugged and a really big. Thank you digital ocean
damn
for sponsoring the unplugged program
Okay
So maybe what I should have could have would have done instead of uh rage quitting my machine
And then going on the internet and telling everybody about it
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, uh, so uh, I got the bell here
I should get rid of this bell because i'm just dinging it all the time get
Get out of here bell orders ready for us. I threw it out of here. I got out of here. All right, so uh, kora
Uh korora kiora writes in oh, yeah kiora. That sounds right
Uh, he writes in with a great tip for easy fall backs and roll backs after an update that goes bad using butter fs
And grub, uh, it could all it could work pretty much on any distro that has that combo
This one is written specifically for arch and he's got it in here and what he's done mad check this bad mama jam out
He has an alias
So he just runs the command sys upgrade and what that does is that executes a butter fs sub volume snapshot it snapshots his stuff
Date and timestamps that snapshot then it actually executes the software update and then after the software update
It depends grub with the uh with the snapshot so that way you could boot into the snapshot if you want to and so with one
Command he runs this
This is the linux kind of stuff
I love where you get one line and you do all this cool stuff in one line
And so he's aliased all that to just the command sys upgrade. He types this upgrade and it does all of that
Well, and the fact that he aliased it that's now now you're speaking my language because you're taking easy
He's got he's done the hard work for you. He's got it all laid out here
He's got all his logic here and how you can change it for yourself. This is just a super great
This is one of the greatest contributions of the week
I think to the subreddit because i'm going to do this on my rig because you know
Essentially and i'm going to tweak it a little bit because if uh, this is just me don't do this
This is something chris does that you should not do audience
But see since i'm doing a snapshot, of course, i've only got butterfs left on one more rig
But I might as well do it on the rig. I've got it left on uh
I'm also gonna see where i'm gonna do packer
instead of pacman and i'm gonna do the uh dash dash no edit no confirm because I just feel like
when I just hit when I when I
so going back to loving to see the updates when I do a packer and an
Syu and then a no edit and a no confirm what i'm telling what i'm saying is
Update all the things. I don't care. Yes to everything. I don't want to change a thing
Take it and I don't know if it's going to be one package or a hundred packages
And it's so glorious when it's a hundred packages. Oh, let's do it right now. Let's do it
I think it's a box of cracker jacks experience for you. I think you like the
I'll do it. So i'm gonna do a packer. That's why you see it. No dash dash. No edit. No confirm
We'll do it right now because it just feels oh, I gotta put my password in there. Don't look guys
All right. So let's see i'm synchronizing right now. This is on the bonobo. We're doing it. Oh, there's some good packages
Yeah, look at all those look at all those package 60. We're gonna update. You'll see we're getting new drop box up in here
Oh
Gnome 3.16.1. So i'm getting an update to gnome 3.16. I'm getting a new light dm new youtube dl new xorg
Oh, this is a pretty solid update for me matt. See this is great and i'm saying no edit. I'm just taking it
I'm just taking it
And so now what I could do in the future is I could alias that to also do a snapshot see instead of doing that
I could do like a let's just take it all i'll make the command take it all and that'll do a snapshot
And i'll do a packer with the no edit the no confirm
Because why not do it while i'm doing a show live on the air, right?
Why why not seems like a perfect time to update my rolling desktop light dm
If I you know, I will say that one out of every seven times that I update that it breaks
I'm not worried at all. I'm not worried. No, okay
Not one little bit everything else i'm okay with but yeah, that's one area to work
It's like I can consistently point to example after example
I've had issues. Okay, it's done. Okay
Kind of anti-connected everything's fine. Everything's fine. Uh, so that was one thing I could have done differently is I could have had a sweet
um
Really no brainer snapshot totally should have been doing that since I had butter fs anyways
And you can see you can all do it in one command line and we'll have a link to that in the show notes
If you would like to try that on your rig kind of fun just to play with it anyways
And maybe not bad for your servers, too
All right, and you know, we are our arch servers here at the studio are running butter fs. And yes, I said arch servers. Yes
We run those jason wrote in with another suggestion and this one's a no-brainer too
He says, uh, you know if alan jud was in the mumba room
I'm sure he would have pointed out that pcbsd has a great backup solution
now
I thought this was great
I got this mentioned a few times and I think what this fundamentally demonstrates as pcbsd
Is taking technologies that are just built into the file system that they're using and they're wrapping it into a really user presentable package
Here you go
He says it has a great backup solution
It's called life preserver and we've actually talked about it before on this show and on bsd now
Uh, but it uses zfs to create snapshots that can be replicated off to a free naz server
So you see what they're doing here, right? This is beautiful
So ix systems is the umbrella in which pcbsd and free naz and honestly a shit ton of zfs development are done underneath
Right, so they are they are just now just connecting the dots
So if you have a pcbsd workstation and a free naz file server
You can use life preserver to take zfs snapshots and they just replicate in the background off to your free naz server
Now here's the final punch
When your machine dies you pop back in a pcbsd install cd and you choose the option to rescue and restore
Using life preserver backups and then it just goes and fetches them from the free naz box and writes it back down to the rig
Wow, there's no I like that there's no reason open susa couldn't do that or ubuntu couldn't do that with butter fs, right?
True, and it's it's just interesting. Like it's just that small like remember last week
I think it was last week
I think I was going on about how the reason why docker has had so much success is because they closed that 10% gap
They made some existing technology usable by more people by developers
But by uh by you know companies and by organizations like they close that 10% gap. That's what pcbsd is doing here, too
They're closing that gap. They're connecting those final dots. It's all stuff. You could roll your own solution
I could do butter fs snapshots that may be right to a mounted nfs
Partition on my free naz server. I could do that
But this does it for me and they can integrate that with the with the with the update system
It's integrated with the file manager so you can be in the directory and you can reverse in that directory right there
Which is way more palatable to end users. It's way more sensical and it's it's an example of just a gap in linux
We just don't sometimes close
Interesting. So i'm pretty sure
In a you say ubuntu could do this we did
Uh, i'm pretty sure if you learn your system partition on butter fs and you do an app get dist upgrade
There's a snapshot option that will snapshot your system before I like that and there's
It's just yum does it too yum does it too?
But I i'm what i'm talking about is like this full connecting of like here's the gooey
It's integrated with the file manager and it writes to the file server. That's a pretty sweet combo, right?
Yeah, um, yeah, that's one of the things that impressed me about fedora is they also jumped on that and it works really well
you can have yum do snapshots and all that and and um
Um, I really should have been doing that. I just for me
I just a reload isn't the end of the day other than just the productivity
I think maybe because it's so straightforward to snapshot. It's probably worth it
I think so. Yeah, but it is interesting to see how the other side does it over over on pcbsd makes me a little jelly
I would love some like ula user-friendly distro to kind of just solve that
Or or maybe like even kind of rip off apple a little bit and use butter fest snapshots
But say hey i've detected you've detached or you have you have plugged in a 20 gigabyte or larger external storage
Would you like to start saving snapshots to this sort of like time machine does or detect it on the network?
I mean that would be nice too. Like there's a file share. I prefer that actually
Yeah, I really would too prefer to back up over the network just because I mean the whole buy usb thing
It's like that's adorable how last year of you and and end users are always going to mess that up. Yeah
uh, so I guess I lesson learned a little bit, but I thought
I still think i'm gonna i'm gonna for now i'm gonna hold the position that um
Moderate I I I think I think unless you're unless you're really comfortable with you know quick recovery solutions
I I just don't know if I can recommend butter fest to people
And I I think i'm gonna hold that line
A lot of people wanted me to retract that and I think not that I just not that I want to argue
But I I think for right now, maybe it's best to to stick with extended for
Or xfs and leave butter fest to those of you who maybe have secondary machines, you know and things like that
Well, here's why I can actually agree with that sentiment and and point it out in a very just point it out to where this
Really takes away the debate when you break a file system chances are your data is probably okay
However, when you know when you break your installation and your data is okay now with a file system that's containing say
Oh, I don't know your data. Um
And that breaks, you know because of a kernel update or whatever the issue may be
That's not really something you just take some time out of your day to recover from because potentially that could also be your backup
I mean, you know, how far does it go?
You know, how far do you actually put into trusting that particular file system, you know?
And again, i'm just speaking to someone looking through the peephole here that my impression of it
And why i've never bothered with this because I never really had clear answers on how much trust do I want to put in a file
System that I really don't have a lot of faith in really
I'll give you the final word. Um, and I'm surprised to see you agree. I picked on your post quite a bit
You seem to be a pretty big butter fs advocate. You said it is the future
I still believe it is the future but I would agree that I wouldn't recommend it to other users i've been done quite
i'm
Not that big a linux switcher, but i've done quite a few linux installs for other people
I haven't been using butter fs
But to play with it
anyone who enjoys linux
I would definitely recommend having a play with it whether you trust your data to it. That's up to you
Right. Yeah, well said I think that summarizes it perfectly and i'm going to end on this
Uh for for people what i'm going to continue to recommend is ext4 and a good backup. Uh, just get ext4
I don't think ext4 isn't going to blow my skirt up. That's fine. Ext4 isn't going to sell file servers off racks
Ext4 isn't going to stop the bleed
Ext4 isn't going to stop the bleed to free bsd. That's all fine
Maybe butter fs can take another five years and lose less files
And then we'll finally by then have a have an answer to a file system
That's been in production in the market for five years
And if that's the loss we have to take because we didn't have the right solution at the right time
Not the end of the world for linux. It's not going to kill linux
I think you need your bell back
Because that needed I don't know I kind of needed a name
I that was I did kind of try to wrap it up positively and then managed to put a little little bit of dagger in there
Again, there were some claws. I didn't really need to scratch. I felt some scratch. Yeah, i'm a little damaged. I just
Take it so seriously for some reason. I don't know why you know, matt
Or I I just I used to be responsible for file servers
And so this is an important thing to me because I was sort of the guardian of data
And so I take it very seriously. It's it's it's a call that I must answer
in the meantime
I'm gonna be so obsessed with linux fest northwest that i'm not really gonna care that much
matt, uh, where should people find you throughout the
Right now with everything that's going on
best thing to do is go to matthartley.com and make sure you're subscribing to either the google plus or the twitter or
Preferably if you want the best solution of all get on the email list. I don't want spam. Oh nice
Just gonna get you some updates. I like that what's going on? It's like the personal line to matt now
Hold on now. Hold on
Now what about uh that what if you happen to make some sort of random appearance on say linux gamecast?
Would I find that in matthartley.com you would um any type of appearance i'm gonna have you're gonna actually know about it
Because you're matthartley.com you're subscribed, you know what's going on. That's smooth
All right, everybody. Thanks so much for this week's episode of linux unplugged. Be sure to join us next week
We do this show on tuesdays. Go to jupiterbroadcasting.com
Slash calendar get this in your local time zone. Don't forget about our meetup group meetup.com slash jupiter broadcasting
Last but not least make this show even better show up live join our virtual lug
You can get the mumble address in our chat room or go to linuxactionshow.reddit.com. See you next week everybody
So
I uh, I got I got randomly accused by wimpy
For being drunk and I I don't I get this accusation from time to time and unfortunately
I wish it was true. The studio has been dry for I think more than three months
There has not been any liquor in here and wow, really? It's true plant a uterus in me and
I know we're definitely going to fix the state of liquor
I will be drunk for probably a few weeks of shows after linux fest northwest as I I mean
I refuse to throw booze out so I have to consume it all but yeah, I was on fire a little bit
You know what? It's true though. I would have digital ocean's manchild. So i'll admit it
I'm just uh, i'm just letting you know i'm being honest with who I am
I would I would have their their love child. I would go have dirty dirty love and I probably shouldn't say this
But I would do it. Did you know coconut oil is a good hangover cure?
JBteles.com and uh, so when I was shopping today
I I noticed that now costco in in very large bulk is uh selling uh coconut oil in huge things of coconut oil
Now let me tell you if you're looking for a good solid healthy thing to fry your foods in
Coconut oil my friends coconut oil also works as a lubricant
This is true. It's uh, uh, yeah
It's totally natural healthy to use as a lubricant so you can cook with it and you can
You can you know, I wonder if it would work on my truck door, which is kind of squeaky you could yeah
It could be like a poor man's uh, wd-40. Have you seen that video about coconut oil how it does it solves everything?
No, is there a video out there?
Yeah, it's uh, it's just it's like a parody video about it's a long
I wouldn't mind seeing that no, it's like because I have to tweet two or three minutes
All right. Well, I could play that while I tweet out that we're live and stuff. Do you remember what it's called?
Uh, no, but I can look at my history. Oh, jeez. Okay. Okay. Yeah, sure
Uh, not that oh gosh, not that oh, you wouldn't want to see my history. Oh, not that. Oh boy
Uh, all right. So here it is all that your skin is looking great. I'm gonna play this while I uh, tweet out and stuff
so i'll be
Brb. Well, then i'll be bathing in oil gross gross
You know what your skin is looking great, oh my god, thank you
I'm using coconut oil. That stuff is amazing. Oh, I know I love it
I take my makeup off with it. I wash my face with it and moisturize with it. I cook with it
All the time. Did you know you can brush your teeth with that? Yeah. No, no, no, I knew that
You can also use it on your hair. And did you know that it's a natural deodorant?
Yeah, it's great for your metabolism
It's great for your circulation
Also really good for wounds any kind of wound, you know, you can run your car on it
I mean the government doesn't want you to know that but you can run your car on it
Did you know that one time I found a dead bird in my garden?
And I brought it inside and I dipped it in coconut oil and then it came back to life
For real
Yeah, I mean it is amazing stuff
Um, hey, you know that deep pit of anxiety that you carry with you every day
But you don't really notice it until it's all consuming and completely ruining your life
totally
Wouldn't it be great if you could put coconut oil on that totally. Yes. Totally. Yes
God fix me already
All right, that was great
Awesome, that's actually quite good. Yeah, uh god, of course I didn't I was super watching I didn't really tweet but that's okay
um
Yeah, yeah, although uh coconut is awesome so eat it
Oh, it truly is and you know, I put it on my wounds and whatnot
Well, I just I bring things back to life and also I wouldn't say that but uh, I do put in my coffee sometime
I do put it in coffee sometimes
And it's great to cook with it really is one of the best oils to uh to fry with because it has such a high
Burning point so uh, it's a great cooking oil
uh, and uh, it makes uh
Yeah, yeah, it's just it's really good for you. In fact, uh, it is good
Like if you just eat even it sounds weird, but even even eat a spoonful of it. It's actually good for you
Oh, man, i'm doing my linux unplugged stretches
Oh i've been doing a lot of i've been doing a lot of driving around today because uh, today's dylan's birthday my son dylan
And uh, so, you know, I had to go get him a cake and then this is how it goes
So I have to go get my son dylan a cake and costco make some pretty good cakes
And so I decided I had to go get him a costco cake because they have a chocolate cake with chocolate filling that he likes
And chocolate frosting so I go over there and I get this costco cake. This is happy birthday. It's it's great. It's perfect
In fact, I think I even have a picture of it. Hold on i'll pull up a picture and you know
I I gotta I should probably I should probably give you a little background here. I'm not big on doing sort of um, vaguely defined errands
Uh before I go on air
Uh, because it's just you know, I I just so many times i've had a situation
Where I just didn't expect something to come up and so then i'm like i'm rushed to get on there
So I I decided but you know what? It's his birthday. Today's a special day
I'm gonna go to costco and i'm gonna get him this birthday cake
So I go pick up a birthday cake and it looks good. These birthday cakes are freaking huge
It says like it's two pounds or whatever. No, it's like it's like 25 pounds. Seriously, you can barely carry it with one hand
I'm, not even kidding. And so then I can barely fit it in my truck
My truck like like it does too big to fit in a seat and it's too big to fit on the floor
So like it's precarious to transport and so I get it home. I mean I get it to the studio and surprise surprise
It doesn't fit in the studio fridge. Well, okay now we got a little bit of time crunch because I have a lunch meeting
And i've got to get this cake delivered
Back to my house and in the fridge, which means I got to clear out space in the fridge because this thing's a monster
This is like literally trying to fit godzilla in your fridge. It's the godzilla cake. And so i'm like, okay
I got to make sure
I get home
I get a spot cleared out. I get this in the fridge
I get back in the truck
I get to my lunch meeting and then I get back in time to do linux unplugged like this is all running through my head
Major pressure to get this cake
I get to the studio
First i'm like if I can just bypass getting to the house I can save myself about 20 to 40 minutes
So I say self. Here's what you're gonna do. Let's take this back to the studio skip running home
That's just a waste of gas anyways, and you can just remember you can remember to bring this home at the end of the day
You can do this and I think to myself, you know what for dylan's birthday. I won't ever forget this cake
I will remember so I so I say compromise. All right self. We'll take it to the studio
So I get in the truck somehow I precariously drive this thing back to the studio
Which is only about 10 minutes away from costco. So it's a nice quick run
I get back to the studio. I clear out a whole shelf which to be honest
It's not easy in the studio mostly my fault
I got a lot of meat parts up in this business and so I clear all the meat parts out of the way
Throw away some of the nasty meat parts. In fact, I threw away about a shelf's worth of stuff
And I try to fit the cake in the fridge. Well, guess what?
Cake doesn't fit in the fridge too big, of course
And you know what?
Nothing makes you feel more like a middle-class pedestrian than when you've just bought a cake that's too big for your own fridge
Like I was just like god. Am I that cheap?
Like what did I like cheap out when I bought this fridge?
Like I I seem to remember this being an expensive fridge and yet I can't even fit a birthday cake in it
Like and then I start thinking like this is a problem rich people never have I don't know
I don't know why my mind goes there
But I started hating my entire life because I cannot fit this cake in the fridge
Like this obviously is a judgment on my failure to properly provide myself a fridge large enough to fit this cake
And now I gotta drive this cake back to my house and it's time to start the show and I was getting very upset
I'm sorry. So anyways
I rushed the cake home. I made it to my meeting cakes in the fridge. Everything's fine
But but I then had an overflowing garbage back at the studio
Disgustingly full of meat bits and like a big bottle of spicy v8 which nobody likes spicy v8 if you like spicy v8
I'm sorry, but come on doesn't that give you farts?
right, so
So you get so you go with the regular v8, right?
So I go with the regular v8 normally
So there's this half drinking thing of spicy v8 because I hate to throw it away
Even though I don't want to get farts, but so I drink I halfway drink this thing
But you know what? It gives me fart side to side, you know, I'm not gonna finish drinking this v8
So I put it in the fridge
It sits there for like three weeks because I'm trying to bring myself to the point to throw away half a thing of a gallon
of v8
Finally today. I'm at that point because I was trying to make room for the cake
You know what cake takes priority that justifies throwing away the v8 boom decision made
So I get back to the studio garbage is full of crap v8 sitting on top of it
I'm like, you know what? I got to take this garbage up before I do a show
It's gonna stink this place up so I go to lift the garbage up out of the garbage can and of course all the
Handles just rip off because it's like stuff full of food and it's been in there for like probably two days longer than it should
So like oh god, so I try to pull the bag out
And of course I go to pull the bag out. Of course the bag just rips. So I'm like, all right fine
You know what? Just go this the hard way and I just pick up the entire garbage can because you know what? Why not?
So I pick up the whole garbage can I I
Gracefully thanks to years of it of carrying computers and monitors and still having to carefully open up doors
I gracefully managed to carry the garbage can and open the door. No problem there at all
I walk around the bush. I walk around my truck
I sidestep around a cat that happens to walk by and I go to open up the garbage can and as I open up the
garbage can of course the thing of v8 falls off the top of the garbage can and when it hits the ground it
just
explodes
Everywhere v8 all over my freaking legs v8 all over the garage v8 all over the truck. I am covered in v8 right now
And i'm ready to do a show
That's been my morning. There you go
Wow, that seems like quite a journey and that's why
Doing something as simple as getting a cake is never that simple for me. And you know what?
I just don't need that. I just don't need that kind of thing
And you know what? My son will never know he'll never know
Unless he comes back and listens to old uh pre-shows
Yeah, yeah
Um anther and send the irc said that you should just eat some of until it fits
The logical solution, yeah, I just should have thought of that if it was pie I might have been tempted a chocolate cake
You know, this is the other thing
I'm, just not like i'm not excited about this cake at all. It's all chocolate
And and i'm all chocolate chocolate, you know what chocolate is delicious. I just it's mono. It's like one note. Yeah
All right. How about we hit a few notes? Let's combine a few ingredients
That's like, you know, then then it's like those ingredients are making love in my mouth and it really tastes good
But if you just go all chocolate, eh, okay. All right. So, uh chris, you know how you make that better
No vanilla ice cream. Yeah, that's that is the truth
Yeah, a raspberry later would be awesome as well. Yes, exactly
See, that's all i'm saying is just put a little spice in there put a little berry put a little white cream in there
You know go a little white if you're going all chocolate if you're going chocolate frosting chocolate cake
Go a little white buttercream in the middle. That's amazing. Right? That's amazing. You just go chocolate in the middle
I'm like, okay more chocolate. Well good thing. I like chocolate but i've already had a lot of chocolate and then it's like I have
This huge plate of chocolate which is fine
But I get the idea after about three solid bites fourth bite. I'm feeling like yeah, I love chocolate fifth bite
I'm like, okay. I got it. It's chocolate six bites. I'm totes done, right?
But you add up some variety to that
I'm like, oh it tastes a little bit different each bite
Sometimes I get a little more of this and I get a little bit less of this and I like that like every single freaking
Bite can be its own custom experience
And all you have to do to have a custom experience with every single bite of cake is just have a little variation
Add a tiny bit of variation. It's not that big of a deal, but yet everybody's like, oh, I love chocolate cake
Chocolate cake's great. Yeah, it's great, but it can be way better. It can be like it's like
Never mind I just so yeah, it's chocolate cake
I did all this work for a chocolate cake that i'm not even really gonna enjoy eating i'm gonna have like three bites of it
Happy birthday